Create WIP product roadmap (#216)
WorldHealthOrganization/app: docs/ROADMAP.md

# Product Roadmap

MAJOR CAVEAT: This is a WORK IN PROGRESS with many items TBD. We will want weigh-in from key folks across all areas, but the idea is that this is a living, breathing document that will grow over time.

### Summary

There is an urgent, global need for an official WHO App to help contain and mitigate COVID-19. The app should support the WHO efforts and be available on a worldwide basis, with information tailored to the user’s location, culture and language. The app should also be sensitive to national needs and respect privacy. Once established, the system can be leveraged to proactively detect, respond early and prevent future pandemics.

## Versions

> Aligning on language of versions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Version numbering terminology:
```

First thought I believed you meant translations

> * **v0.1**: refers to the initial buildout that will be submitted to the app stores, aiming for Tuesday, March 24

Reviewer: Hopefully this project will outlive 2020 =)
```suggestion
* **v0.1**: refers to the initial buildout that will be submitted to the app stores, aiming for Tuesday, March 24, 2020
```

> * **v0.2+**: any versions starting with v0 are _PRE_ publishing the app for public download

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **v0.2+**: any versions starting with major version v0 are not intended for public distribution or consumption
```

* **v1.0**: the first version that we feel offers enough value to be published onto the app stores for public download will be v1.0

### v0.1

> **Goal:** To get a functional build of an application that can be submitted to the Apple App Store and Google Play Store for approval. This app will _NOT_ be published into those app stores for public download, but will instead serve as an approved base for future versions and to prove out that we can deliver on the technical side. The app will serve static content pulled from the WHO's site in English.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Goal:** To get a functional build of an application that can be submitted to the Apple App Store and Google Play Store for approval. This app will _NOT_ be published into those app stores for public download, but will instead serve as an approved base for future versions and to prove out that we can deliver on the technical side. The app will serve static content, manually adapted from the WHO's site in English.
```

**Target Date:** Tuesday, March 24

Technical Features / Requirements:

* App built to be submitted on Apple App Store and Google Play Store
* Displaying static information in English
  * Currently, build to design spec in Figma; this may be updated over the course of the day
* UI styled to exact design spec in Figma
* App is still functional in an offline environment with default content able to be accessed without a network connection
* Demonstrate capability to localize content from the technical platform perspective, even if other languages/cultures are _NOT_ part of that v0.1 launch
  * Framework in place to localize UI elements
  * Framework in place to load the informational content in localized formats
* Demonstrate capability to load content dynamically from the cloud, even if this feature will _NOT_ be turned on as part of the v0.1 launch

> * Demonstrate capability to instrument the app and collect basic analytics around which features and pages are actually being used, even if this feature will _NOT_ be turned on as part of the v0.1 launch

Reviewer: Still unsure of this item

  * Investigating legal requirements of this data collection, including whether updated TOS/Privacy Policy is needed

Features _NOT_ included in v0.1:

* Localization of initial content across languages/cultures outside of English / US
  * Blockers: translation & adaptation of content to enough other languages/cultures to be a meaningful initial feature
  * We are building in the capabilities into v0.1 from the technical perspective
* Triage survey telling users whether or not they should go to the hospital
  * Blockers: full definition on what the survey entails + legal review on the implications of making medical suggestions
  * _Question:_ do we want to link to an existing triage survey in a webview for v0.1, and if so, which one?

> * Contact tracing

Reviewer: Do we even need this here?

Author: I think it's important to have given that it's in the original project brief that a lot of people saw when joining the project

# Product Roadmap

MAJOR CAVEAT: This is a WORK IN PROGRESS with many items TBD. We will want weigh-in from key folks across all areas, but the idea is that this is a living, breathing document that will grow over time.

### Summary

There is an urgent, global need for an official WHO App to help contain and mitigate COVID-19. The app should support the WHO efforts and be available on a worldwide basis, with information tailored to the user’s location, culture and language. The app should also be sensitive to national needs and respect privacy. Once established, the system can be leveraged to proactively detect, respond early and prevent future pandemics.

## Milestones

Version numbering terminology:

> * **v0.1**: refers to the initial buildout that will be submitted to the app stores, aiming for Tuesday, March 24, 2020 ([v0.1 milestone](https://github.com/WorldHealthOrganization/app/milestone/2))

Reviewer 2: Milestones don't have a short autolink unfortunately

* **v0.2+**: any versions starting with major version v0 are not intended for public distribution or consumption
* **v1.0**: the first version that we feel offers enough value to be published onto the app stores for public download will be v1.0

### v0.1

**Goal:** To get a functional build of an application that can be submitted to the Apple App Store and Google Play Store for approval. This app will _NOT_ be published into those app stores for public download, but will instead serve as an approved base for future versions and to prove out that we can deliver on the technical side. The app will serve static content manually adapted from the WHO's site in English.

**Target Date:** Tuesday, March 24, 2020

**GitHub Milestone:** https://github.com/WorldHealthOrganization/app/milestone/2

Technical Features / Requirements:

* App built to be submitted on Apple App Store and Google Play Store, including code signing process

> * UI styled to exact [design spec in Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/fjzTIloCEK4FpbyDiTLj2X/iOS-UX) ([#186](https://github.com/WorldHealthOrganization/app/issues/186))

Reviewer 2: @hspinks - GitHub makes your life simple than writing a long url like that. All you need is the #186 reference and it will automatically create the link for you to the issue. You can test this by looking at the "Preview" tab.

https://help.github.com/en/github/writing-on-github/autolinked-references-and-urls#issues-and-pull-requests

Repeat this many times below

```suggestion
* UI styled to exact [design spec in Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/fjzTIloCEK4FpbyDiTLj2X/iOS-UX) #186
```

Author: sadly, I don't think GitHub autolinks to issues/PRs in markdown files checked into the repo, only in the text of issues/PRs themselves (see the note in [the GitHub help doc](https://help.github.com/en/github/writing-on-github/autolinked-references-and-urls#issues-and-pull-requests) you linked to)... too bad cause that would be a huge time saver. Fortunately, GitHub automatically formats the markdown file for you when you view it in the browser!

  * Displaying static content in English only

> * App is still functional in an offline environment with default content able to be accessed without a network connection ([#120](https://github.com/WorldHealthOrganization/app/pull/120) :white_check_mark:)

Reviewer 2: Remove "white check mark" as that won't update automatically. Better to see completion rate in milestone. Mousing over issue will show the status.

"Offline" should be the first word. If someone is scanning through a list, the ideal is that the first one or two words in each item will convey what's important. Conversely, if I'm scanning for "offline", it's easier to find as the first word.

```suggestion
* Offline support, so that default content works without a network connection #120
```

> * Demonstrate capability to localize content from the technical platform perspective, even if other languages/cultures are _NOT_ part of that v0.1 launch

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Dynamic loading demonstration for both updating content and changing languages. Localization may not be part of v0.1
```

>   * Framework in place to localize UI elements ([#126](https://github.com/WorldHealthOrganization/app/pull/126) :white_check_mark:)

Reviewer 2: Most important word first, more concise
```suggestion
  * Localization UI framework #126
```

>   * Framework in place to load the informational content in localized formats ([#120](https://github.com/WorldHealthOrganization/app/pull/120) :white_check_mark:)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Framework in place to load the informational content in localized formats #120
```

> * Demonstrate capability to load content dynamically from the cloud, even if this feature will _NOT_ be turned on as part of the v0.1 launch ([#120](https://github.com/WorldHealthOrganization/app/pull/120) :white_check_mark:)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Demonstrate capability to load content dynamically from the cloud, even if this feature will _NOT_ be turned on as part of the v0.1 launch #120
```

Reviewer 2: Seems duplicative with line 31

Author: The localization and dynamic content are referring to different capabilities. Localization is referring to adapting the content to different languages/cultures, which can be done on static content pre-loaded in the app bundle. Dynamic content is referring to the ability to load content from our servers as opposed to just the default content that is pre-loaded in the app bundle, giving us the ability to update the information users see without forcing them to download an app update. Both capabilities were added in the same PR (#120) which is probably why it looks duplicative. Let me know if there is different terminology you'd like me to use to make this clearer!

> * _(Open Question)_ Demonstrate capability to instrument the app and collect basic analytics around which features and pages are actually being used, even if this feature will _NOT_ be turned on as part of the v0.1 launch ([#183](https://github.com/WorldHealthOrganization/app/issues/183))

Reviewer 2: First words on target
```suggestion
* _(Open Question)_ Analytics demonstration for content viewing and functionality instrumentation. feature will _NOT_ be turned on as part of the v0.1 launch #183
```

>   * Investigating legal requirements of this data collection, including whether updated TOS/Privacy Policy is needed

Reviewer 2: Focus on first words

You should create an issue for this and assign it to Michael Nichols (not sure of his GitHub) and @brunobowden so I'm subscribed on it as well. All the tasks for v0.1 should have issues created for them

```suggestion
  * Legal requirements investigate for data collection, including whether updated TOS/Privacy Policy is needed
```

Features _NOT_ included in v0.1:

* Localization of initial content across languages/cultures outside of English / US
  * Blockers: translation & adaptation of content to enough other languages/cultures to be a meaningful initial feature
  * We are building in the capabilities into v0.1 from the technical perspective
* Triage survey telling users whether or not they should go to the hospital
  * Blockers: full definition on what the survey entails + legal review on the implications of making medical suggestions
  * _Question:_ do we want to link to an existing triage survey in a webview for v0.1, and if so, which one?

Non-Technical Requirements for v0.1:

> * All content & assets required for submission to Apple App Store and Google Play Store ([#188](https://github.com/WorldHealthOrganization/app/issues/188), [#187](https://github.com/WorldHealthOrganization/app/issues/187) :warning:)

Reviewer 2: Maybe warning is ok:
```suggestion
* All content & assets required for submission to Apple App Store and Google Play Store. Text: #188 and Images: #187 :warning:
```

> * Confirmed informational content & organization of that content included in app ([#93](https://github.com/WorldHealthOrganization/app/issues/93) :warning:)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Confirmed informational content & organization of that content included in app #93 :warning:
```

> * Any legal requirements for submission to app stores & legal review ([#17](https://github.com/WorldHealthOrganization/app/issues/17) :warning:)

Reviewer 2: I'm concerned that :warning: is being used too much. Should be used sparingly
```suggestion
* Any legal requirements for submission to app stores & legal review #17 :warning:
```

Author: Understood - I'll remove unless I see it as a potential show-stopper for hitting the milestone

> * Account information/access from WHO to submit app on behalf of their accounts (also needed for code signing) ([#20](https://github.com/WorldHealthOrganization/app/issues/20) :warning:)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Account information/access from WHO to submit app on behalf of their accounts (also needed for code signing) #20 :warning:
```

Other notes on v0.1:

* We have chosen to use Ionic React to get to a launchable prototype for v0.1. However, we are _NOT_ committed to using that in the longer term, and we have ongoing conversations about what the right frameworks to use will be (investigating Flutter and React Native)

### v0.2+

This section is a major WORK IN PROGRESS and is not fully complete. Listing out very initial thoughts for now.

**Goal:** Iterate on initial app submission with the goal of matching or exceeding the existing functionality in the WHO WhatsApp Bot presented idiomatically as an app. The app content should be localized to the 6 official WHO languages, with the ability to be served from the cloud.

**Target Date:** _(ongoing)_

Features:

> * Process & pipeline for beta distribution of the app before public availability on app stores (e.g. TestFlight) ([#132](https://github.com/WorldHealthOrganization/app/issues/132))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Process & pipeline for beta distribution of the app before public availability on app stores (e.g. TestFlight) #132
```

  * _Possible v0.1 feature?_
* Possibly remodel the presentation of content using a Snapchat story-style interface

> * Match or exceed the existing functionality & content in the WHO WhatsApp Bot, presented idiomatically as an app ([#208](https://github.com/WorldHealthOrganization/app/issues/208))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Match or exceed the existing functionality & content in the WHO WhatsApp Bot, presented idiomatically as an app #208
```

  * _See internal documentation on content in the bot_

> * Dynamically loading data from the cloud for updates on content ([#120](https://github.com/WorldHealthOrganization/app/pull/120) :white_check_mark:)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Dynamically loading data from the cloud for updates on content #120
```

  * Should still fall back to default data baked into app bundle for full functionality in an offline environment

> * App content is available in the 6 official WHO languages: Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, and Spanish ([#224](https://github.com/WorldHealthOrganization/app/issues/224))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* App content is available in the 6 official WHO languages: Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, and Spanish #224
```

  * Possibly further localized based on country

> * Basic app instrumentation and analytics turned on in the app ([#183](https://github.com/WorldHealthOrganization/app/issues/183))

Reviewer 2: First words should have the meaning
```suggestion
* Analytics and instrumentation turned on in the app #183
```

# Product Roadmap

MAJOR CAVEAT: This is a WORK IN PROGRESS with many items TBD. We will want weigh-in from key folks across all areas, but the idea is that this is a living, breathing document that will grow over time.

### Summary

There is an urgent, global need for an official WHO App to help contain and mitigate COVID-19. The app should support the WHO efforts and be available on a worldwide basis, with information tailored to the user’s location, culture and language. The app should also be sensitive to national needs and respect privacy. Once established, the system can be leveraged to proactively detect, respond early and prevent future pandemics.

## Milestones

Version numbering terminology:

* **v0.1**: refers to the initial buildout that will be submitted to the app stores, aiming for Tuesday, March 24, 2020

> * **v0.2+**: any versions starting with major version v0 are not intended for public distribution or consumption

Author: I'm open to that, too, depending on the feature set we converge on for v0.2. I'll sync up with Karen and the team, and we can make a call on that

* **v1.0**: the first version that we feel offers enough value to be published onto the app stores for public download will be v1.0

### v0.1

**Goal:** To get a functional build of an application that can be submitted to the Apple App Store and Google Play Store for approval. This app will _NOT_ be published into those app stores for public download, but will instead serve as an approved base for future versions and to prove out that we can deliver on the technical side. The app will serve static content manually adapted from the WHO's site in English.

**Target Date:** Tuesday, March 24, 2020

Technical Features / Requirements:

> * App built to be submitted on Apple App Store and Google Play Store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* App built to be submitted on Apple App Store and Google Play Store, including code signing process
```

raising as higher risk

* Displaying static information in English

>   * Currently, build to design spec in Figma; this may be updated over the course of the day

Reviewer: link to single figma right here
